acts_preprocessing_with_nlp
===============================

This projects aims to analyze the legal documents generated by the sanitary inspections generated an COFEPRIS

Backgroud
=============

[COFEPRIS](https://www.gob.mx/cofepris) is a Mexican governmental agency dedicated to the protection of people against sanitary risks; many of its functions are analogous to those of the [FDA](https://www.fda.gov/) in the United States.

One of the functions of COFEPRIS is to perform sanitary inspections in manufacturing industries, hospitals, retailers, restaurants, etc. The purpose of these visits is to ensure that all the activities in the establishment are performed according to the sanitary law; and, ultimately, ensure the health of the Mexican population.

All sanitary inspections result in a document called the sanitary inspection act. These documents contain all the findings of the inspectors during their visit to the establishment; they contain vital information as the security measures applied, deficiencies in the process, profiles of the personnel responsible for the operation, etc. 

The sanitary inspections acts are later analyzed by experts that emit a second document called sanitary dictum. Said document contains judicial and techinc elements that justify the actions that will be implemented in order to ensure that the visited establishment performs its operation according to the law.

As of 2014, the inspection acts are created in electronic format; this is, a Microsoft Word document. This opens the possibility to perform automatic analysis over these files.

The information registered about the activities involved in this project, will be kept in a database called BADD ("Base de Datos de la DEDS" or "DEDS database"). Using this database, we will be able to create many different tags for our information. The BADD is both, the RBDMS built in SQL Server, and the GUI programmed in Java for the users to intereact with the information. For this project we are maninly concerned with the RDBMS component of the BADD.

Goals
========

Given the important volume of inspection acts that are generated. The purpose of this project is to generate an automatic system capable of performing a preprocessing of these documents and a perform classification process. This would greatly help to generate more accurate reports and even prioritize the level of urgency in the attention of each case.

Eventually, the goal is to generate a preliminary sanitary dictum based on the analysis of the inspection act. This would greatly help the experts to perform their analysis more readily; in turn, this would better the attention for the Mexican citizens.

Tools and Methods
=====================

The ideal tool for this endeavor is Natural Language Processing (NLP). Since NLP techniques are fairly diverse, we'll be employing different approaches depending on the task at hand. For example, sometimes a simple analysis with regular expression may make the trick; while, for other tasks, Convolutional Neural Networks could provide a better result.

The Tool we'll be using is Python. As the project moves forward, we are going to update the list of libraries used.

Libraries
-------------

We're only going to mention uncommon or constume made libraries. Cases as pandas, numpy, etc. will not be mentioned on this section; nontheless, they will be mentioned in the requirements.txt file (see "Structure of the directory" section).

### general_library.badd_access

This is a costume-made library created to interact with the BADD (the RDBMS). This library includes the credential to connect to the database.
  
Structure of the directory
============================

The directory contains the following files and directories:
* settings.py. Contains a collection of constants with sensitive information that cannot be shared publicly.
* security_measure_applied.ipynb. The notebook with description of how the project is being developped.
* data. The directory where the data is to be kept. It includes the corpus of inspection acts. Since it contains private information, it cannot be shared publicly.
* .gitignore. Included as reference of what files and directories are not being committed. 
* requirements.txt. Lists the Python packages required for this project.
* README.md. This file.

Important notes
=================

A special challenge for this project is that all the documents are in Spanish. Since most of the research and projects related to NLP depart from the English language, many resources may not be available in Spanish; however, this is a great opportunity to curate and create this kind of resources!

Another important point is that the inspection acts and the sanitary dictums are private documents; so, we can't share them publicly. However, we can share general statistics, findings, analysis techniques, and insights that come as a result of this project.
